README.md, before:

# Sync Suite - Synchronize files to remote server

**author:** elvis (Marek Paulik)\
**mail:** [elvis@elvis.sk](mailto:elvis@elvis.sk)

**Set of tools to manage and perform synchronization of files to remote
system using rsync. Script also outputs its action to console and logs them.**

> **IMPORTANT**\
> You need to use passwordless ssh key on remote machine to work!
> [Quick Guide to setup SSH w/o password]
> (<https://www.linuxtrainingacademy.com/ssh-login-without-password/>)

## Features

- Synchronize selected files, whole projects or all files to remote machine
- `-cm` flag allows you to specify dir containing config and file map files
- `-c` and `-m` flags allow you to use different configurations or filemaps
- Synchronization can run in ssh multiplex mode, with socket staying alive
for 20 seconds after last command
- Run using script via CLI with options
- Restart service(s) on remote machine after sync
- Add files to path mapping dictionary with ability to find their
counterparts on remote and group them in projects
- Script logs each days work in separate file.

## Components

### rsync_to_remote.py

Standalone CLI script to perform synchronization. Configuration can be loaded
with `-c` flag, file map with `-m` flag or both from configuration directory
using `-cm` flag. All Settings can be altered by using number of arguments.
For more details see `rsync_to_remote.py -h`

### file_map.py

Script to view and manage file map file. `-sm` search for remote counterparts
in synced file map, before resorting to search on remote via ssh. `-cm`, `-c`
and `-m` flags can be used same as with rsync_to_remote.py.
For more details see `file_map.py -h`

### create_path_sync.py

To speed up search for possible remote counterpart to local file, `file_map.py`
script creates `synced_file_map.yaml`.\
This is pure helper script very little checks and verbosity!
f something goes south, it talks to you through Traceback.\
It needs a `sync_conf.yaml` config file in same directory or can be specified
using either `-cd` or `-c` flags and result is saved in target directory/file,
if `-t` flag is provided, otherwise it ends up in script root.\
If target file already exists, it will be overwritten without warning!

> **INFO**
> `-c`, `-m`, `-sm` flags overrides paths from `-cd` flag. If none is specified,
> script will seek them in its root.

### log_cleanup.py

Run this script manually or create a cron job for it to periodically delete
obsolete log files.

### test_files/config/sync_conf.yaml

Configuration file containing all settings to run the script. All settings in
it can be overridden with CLI arguments.

**format:** {category: {var1: val1, var2: val2}}

- **ALWAYS** make backup before editing by hand!

#### RSYNC SETTINGS

- when editing port, always edit rsync option accordingly!
- *local_root_dir* should ALWAYS contain valid path, BUT if empty, must be ""
(same goes for default_dir)

#### SCRIPT SETTINGS

- set timeouts to 0 to skip check
- (future option for GUI) set *default_dir* to specify dir to start browsing
from *local_root_dir* (LRD) is used if empty, if LRD empty script parent dir
is used

#### SYNC SETTINGS

> **INFO**\
> Override hierarchy: sync_all > project > file_keys

- *sync_all*: sync all files in file_map.yaml; value: true/false
- *project*: sync all files from specified project, null for None
- *file_keys*: list of file pairs to sync WARNING: Must be list even with zero
or single item! hint: empty_list: []

#### SERVICES SETTINGS

- *restart_services*: defaults to False. It is recommended to never save this
option as True to avoid unnecessary service restarting.
- *services*: same as file_keys, must allways be a list. services must allways
be duffixed with '.service' or '.target'.

### test_files/config/file_map.yaml

File contains local <-> remote filepaths pairs grouped into projects.
Local paths are relative to working or repo direcory,
remote are full paths. You should **NEVER** edit it by hand!\
**format:** {project: [source/path, target/path]}

### test_files/config/synced_file_map.yaml

Result of `create_path_sync.py`

## Installation

```bash
mkdir /your/sync_suite/dir
cd /your/sync_suite/dir
git clone https://github.com/neurobrko/SyncSuite.git .
```

If using Poetry:

```bash
poetry init
poetry env info --path # copy output and use it later to alter .py scripts
```

If using python venv:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/python3
pip install -r requirements.txt
deactivate
cd .venv/bin
find "$PWD" -name python3 # copy output and use it later to alter .py scripts
```

> **IMPORTANT**\
> To run the scripts from anywhere without activating virtual environment,
> edit shebang in all .py files!

```python
#!/usr/bin/env /absolute/path/to/env/pyton/executable/copied/before
```

(Optional) Create aliases

`~/.bash_aliases`

```sh
# SyncSuite rsync to remote
alias r2r='/your/sync_suite/dir/rsync_to_remote.py -cm /your/config/dir/'
# SyncSuite file map
alias rfm='/your/sync_suite/dir/file_map.py -cm /your/config/dir'
```

> **NOTE**\
> To see more *.bash_aliases magic* visit my [DevTools repo](https://github.com/neurobrko/DevTools).

## TODO

- Create GUI with NiceGUI or at least reuse PySimpleGUI
implementation from previous version

Commit message:

ability to delete whole projects

README.md, after:

# Sync Suite - Synchronize files to remote server

**author:** elvis (Marek Paulik)\
**mail:** [elvis@elvis.sk](mailto:elvis@elvis.sk)

**Set of tools to manage and perform synchronization of files to remote
system using rsync. Script also outputs its action to console and logs them.**

> **IMPORTANT**\
> You need to use passwordless ssh key on remote machine to work!
> [Quick Guide to setup SSH w/o password]
> (<https://www.linuxtrainingacademy.com/ssh-login-without-password/>)

## Features

- Synchronize selected files, whole projects or all files to remote machine
- `-cm` flag allows you to specify dir containing config and file map files
- `-c` and `-m` flags allow you to use different configurations or filemaps
- Synchronization can run in ssh multiplex mode, with socket staying alive
for 20 seconds after last command
- Run using script via CLI with options
- Restart service(s) on remote machine after sync
- Add files to path mapping dictionary with ability to find their
counterparts on remote and group them in projects
- Script logs each days work in separate file.

## Components

### rsync_to_remote.py

Standalone CLI script to perform synchronization. Configuration can be loaded
with `-c` flag, file map with `-m` flag or both from configuration directory
using `-cm` flag. All Settings can be altered by using number of arguments.
For more details see `rsync_to_remote.py -h`

### file_map.py

Script to view and manage file map file. `-sm` search for remote counterparts
in synced file map, before resorting to search on remote via ssh. `-cm`, `-c`
and `-m` flags can be used same as with rsync_to_remote.py. With `-d`, you can
either delete file from map by specifying its number, or if `-p` is used,
whole project will be deleted from file map.
For more details see `file_map.py -h`

### create_path_sync.py

To speed up search for possible remote counterpart to local file, `file_map.py`
script creates `synced_file_map.yaml`.\
This is pure helper script very little checks and verbosity!
f something goes south, it talks to you through Traceback.\
It needs a `sync_conf.yaml` config file in same directory or can be specified
using either `-cd` or `-c` flags and result is saved in target directory/file,
if `-t` flag is provided, otherwise it ends up in script root.\
If target file already exists, it will be overwritten without warning!

> **INFO**
> `-c`, `-m`, `-sm` flags overrides paths from `-cd` flag. If none is specified,
> script will seek them in its root.

### log_cleanup.py

Run this script manually or create a cron job for it to periodically delete
obsolete log files.

### test_files/config/sync_conf.yaml

Configuration file containing all settings to run the script. All settings in
it can be overridden with CLI arguments.

**format:** {category: {var1: val1, var2: val2}}

- **ALWAYS** make backup before editing by hand!

#### RSYNC SETTINGS

- when editing port, always edit rsync option accordingly!
- *local_root_dir* should ALWAYS contain valid path, BUT if empty, must be ""
(same goes for default_dir)

#### SCRIPT SETTINGS

- set timeouts to 0 to skip check
- (future option for GUI) set *default_dir* to specify dir to start browsing
from *local_root_dir* (LRD) is used if empty, if LRD empty script parent dir
is used

#### SYNC SETTINGS

> **INFO**\
> Override hierarchy: sync_all > project > file_keys

- *sync_all*: sync all files in file_map.yaml; value: true/false
- *project*: sync all files from specified project, null for None
- *file_keys*: list of file pairs to sync WARNING: Must be list even with zero
or single item! hint: empty_list: []

#### SERVICES SETTINGS

- *restart_services*: defaults to False. It is recommended to never save this
option as True to avoid unnecessary service restarting.
- *services*: same as file_keys, must allways be a list. services must allways
be duffixed with '.service' or '.target'.

### test_files/config/file_map.yaml

File contains local <-> remote filepaths pairs grouped into projects.
Local paths are relative to working or repo direcory,
remote are full paths. You should **NEVER** edit it by hand!\
**format:** {project: [source/path, target/path]}

### test_files/config/synced_file_map.yaml

Result of `create_path_sync.py`

## Installation

```bash
mkdir /your/sync_suite/dir
cd /your/sync_suite/dir
git clone https://github.com/neurobrko/SyncSuite.git .
```

If using Poetry:

```bash
poetry init
poetry env info --path # copy output and use it later to alter .py scripts
```

If using python venv:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/python3
pip install -r requirements.txt
deactivate
cd .venv/bin
find "$PWD" -name python3 # copy output and use it later to alter .py scripts
```

> **IMPORTANT**\
> To run the scripts from anywhere without activating virtual environment,
> edit shebang in all .py files!

```python
#!/usr/bin/env /absolute/path/to/env/pyton/executable/copied/before
```

(Optional) Create aliases

`~/.bash_aliases`

```sh
# SyncSuite rsync to remote
alias r2r='/your/sync_suite/dir/rsync_to_remote.py -cm /your/config/dir/'
# SyncSuite file map
alias rfm='/your/sync_suite/dir/file_map.py -cm /your/config/dir'
```

> **NOTE**\
> To see more *.bash_aliases magic* visit my [DevTools repo](https://github.com/neurobrko/DevTools).

## TODO

- Create GUI with NiceGUI or at least reuse PySimpleGUI
implementation from previous version
